now the Lord spoke to Moses after the
death of the two sons of Aaron when they
offered profane fire before the Lord and
died tell Aaron your brother not to come
at just any time into the holy place
inside the veil before the mercy seat
which is on the ark lest he die for I
will appear in the cloud above the mercy
seat
thus Aaron shall come into the holy
place with the blood of a young bull as
a sin offering and of a ram as a burnt
offering he shall put the holy linen
tunic and the linen trousers on his body
he shall be girded with a linen sash and
with the linen turban he shall be
attired these are holy garments
therefore he shall wash his body in
water and put them on and he shall take
from the congregation of the children of
Israel two kids of the goats as a sin
offering and one ram as a burnt offering
Aaron shall offer the bull as a sin
offering which is for himself and make
atonement for himself and for his house
he shall take the two goats and present
them before the Lord at the door of the
tabernacle of meeting then Aaron shall
cast lots for the two goats one lot for
the Lord and the other lot for the
scapegoat and Aaron shall bring the goat
on which the Lord's lot fell and offer
it as a sin offering
but the goat on which the lot fell to be
the scapegoat shall be presented alive
before the Lord to make atonement upon
it and to let it go as the scapegoat
into the wilderness and Aaron shall
bring the bull of the sin offering which
is for himself and make atonement for
himself and for his house and shall kill
the bull as the sin offering which is
for himself then he shall take a sense a
full of burning coals of fire from the
altar before the Lord with his hands
full of sweet incense beaten fine and
bring it inside the vain
and he shall put the incense on the fire
before the Lord that the cloud of
incense may cover the mercy seat that is
on the testimony lest he die he shall
take some of the blood of the bull and
sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy
seat on the east side and before the
mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the
blood with his finger
seven times then he shall kill the goat
of the sin offering which is for the
people bring its blood inside the veil
do with that blood as he did with the
blood of the bull and sprinkle it on the
mercy seat and before the mercy seat so
he shall make atonement for the holy
place because of the uncleanness of the
children of Israel and because of their
transgressions for all their sins and so
he shall do for the tabernacle of
meeting which remains among them in the
midst of their uncleanness there shall
be no man in the tabernacle of meeting
when he goes in to make atonement in the
holy place until he comes out but he may
make atonement for himself for his
household and for all the Assembly of
Israel and he shall go out to the altar
that is before the Lord and make
atonement for it and shall take some of
the blood of the bull and some of the
blood of the goat and put it on the
horns of the altar all around then he
shall sprinkle some of the blood on it
with his finger seven times cleanse it
and consecrated from the uncleanness of
the children of Israel and when he has
made an end of atoning for the holy
place the tabernacle of meeting and the
altar he shall bring the live goat
Aaron shall lay both his hands on the
head of the live goat confess over it
all the iniquities of the children of
Israel and all their transgressions
concerning all their sins putting them
on the head of the goat and shall send
it away into the wilderness by the hand
of a suitable man the goat shall bear on
itself all their iniquities to an
uninhabited land and he shall release
the goat in the wilderness
then Aaron shall come into the
tabernacle of meeting shall take off the
linen garments which he put on when he
went into the holy place and shall leave
them there and he shall wash his body
with water in a holy place put on his
garments come out and offer his burnt
offering and the burnt offering of the
people and make atonement for himself
and for the people the fat of the sin
offering he shall burn on the altar and
he evil released the goat as the
scapegoat shall wash his clothes and
bathe his body in water and afterward he
may come into the camp the bull for the
sin offering and the goat for the sin
offering whose blood was brought in to
make atonement in the holy place shall
be carried outside the camp and they
shall burn in the fire their skins their
flesh and their awful then he who burns
them shall wash his clothes and bathe
his body in water and afterward he may
come into the camp this shall be a
statute forever for you in the seventh
month on the tenth day of the month you
shall afflict your souls and do no work
at all whether a native of your own
country or a stranger who dwells among
you for on that day the priests shall
make atonement for you
cleanse you that you may be clean from
all your sins before the Lord it is a
Sabbath of solemn rest for you and you
shall afflict your souls it is a statute
forever and the priest who is anointed
and consecrated to minister as priest in
his father's place shall make atonement
and put on the linen clothes the holy
garments then he shall make atonement
for the holy sanctuary and he shall make
atonement for the tabernacle of meeting
and for the altar and he shall make
atonement for the priests and for all
the people of the Assembly this shall be
an everlasting statute for you to make
atonement for the children of Israel for
all their sins once a year and he did as
the LORD commanded Moses
[Music]
you